Now the next thing I want to talk about is how you can get press for your campaign.
So one of the most important things I would stress is founders are always preferred over PR firms especially
if you're a startup.
Every single journalist who I'm friends with people who work for Tech Crunch et cetera they all say
that they prefer hearing directly from the horse's mouth from the actual founders rather than some sort
of sales team or some sort of PR firm that they hired.
So I would recommend Don't spend your money on hiring some PR person.
It's not as valuable as you think it is.
You can do it yourself.
And it's often preferred over a PR firm.
Now again the most important thing is just figuring out your audience.
Where do they exist.
What publications do they read and which types of press will be able to get you the most impact on your
campaign and then go and target those.
Because think about it if you have an app or a business that targets teenagers if your product appears
in The Guardian it's not going to help you sell that many more of that product.
Right.
Because there are a few teenagers who read the Guardian but they're not the majority you want to target
the publications and the places where your customers frequent and once you do figure out what other
publications that your target audience reads then you need to figure out a story to approach their journalist
with.
So that story can just be.
I launched the Kickstarter.
I'm so awesome.
Please write about me.
That's not going to work.
Instead you have to come up with something that the journalist will want to write about and that readers
will want to read about.
So it is important to bear in mind that you are not going to be Apple you are not going to be able to
put out a press release and no matter how small or insignificant that news is that you will get a blog
post in Tech Crunch or you'll get a blog post in the next web but unfortunately being startups you have
to capture Jenness attention and you have to capture the reader's attention in a different way.
So for example some friends of mine decided that they want to launch a Christmas jumper and they wanted
to market it as the alternative Christmas jumper featuring humping reindeer's.
And as you can see the product itself is already pretty much ripe for being featured on various publications
you know especially during the Christmas period where there's that seasonality where people want to
write about what is relevant for that particular period of time.
Now they upped the ante further by saying that one of the founders own grandmothers actually designed
the humping reindeer jumper.
And once you combine humping reindeer's during the Christmas period featuring the founders own Granmar
having designed the jumpers then you've got the recipe for a perfect news story and they got picked
up pretty much everywhere.
They were featured on the mail on line.
He even took a picture with his grandma and granddad wearing the frisky reindeer jumpers and it was
a huge hit.
They manage to raise a lot of funding for their other stand up by selling frisky reindeer jumpers.
So think about your own story how you can craft a story around your campaign to make it appealing to
journalists and and from readers to want to read about it.
Now when you pitch your company or your product to a journalist make sure that it is succinct and that
people can understand exactly what it is immediately.
So this is a slide from the Founders Institute that is a really really good guide to how you should
do every single pitch in a startup pitches or your Jenness pitches and it roughly follows this format
so let's do an example say my company Space X is developing reusable rockets to help space agencies
reduce the costs of rocket launches.
And that is a really succinct way of putting across any idea or any business and it can be easily understood.
You don't want to pitch like this for example we are a data integration social analysts company which
helps you connect with your prospective leads.
We use different data sources.
Blah blah blah.
Now I've read this so many times because I've given this talk several times and I still don't understand
exactly what it is that this company does.
And mind you this is a real company's real tagline so don't do this.
Instead go for succinct.
Go for it.
Easily understandable and you will be rewarded with more attention and more press.
Now this is a workflow for actually doing your own press releases and doing your own outreach.
So the first thing you want to do is to go onto Barsoom dot com and sign up for a demo account and you
want to search for a competitor or search for your niche.
So say if you're creating a coffee app then you can go in here and see who has written about coffee
apps or if you know your competitors coffee app name and just put their name in here and hit search.
This way you'll find all the journalists who have written about similar products to yours so they're
more likely to write about your product as well.
Right now once you've found all of those journals and once you've found all of those articles you want
to make a spreadsheet and collect them all together and make some notes about the Jenness about what
does that bead or what they tend to cover what is important or what is their opinion on certain things.
Then you want to go into Varla Norbert dot com.
Put in their first name last name and the domain at which they work full and had work for me and Norbert
will generate their contact details i.e. their email for you so that you can reach them.
Now most journalists work across the world so they probably will be at a different time zone from you
and what you want is you want your email to reach them right in the morning when they have the most
motivation to read emails and to deal with these kinds of press requests and to do that you want your
email to arrive around maybe 7:00 a.m. in the morning in their local time.
So once you've figured out their local time you can use a tool like Boomerang G-mail which is a free
email sharing tool that allows you to send your email at any time point in the future so you can share
it.
And forget about it.
Instead of having to be awake at 5 a.m. And as we mentioned before you can use a tool like get Sidekick
which I think has been renamed to HubSpot sales in order to track those e-mails that go out to see if
they were opened when they were opened.
How many times they were opened if they were forwarded etc. etc. to see if your email actually got read.
So if it didn't maybe you can try using a different subject line in order to catch their attention.
Now when you make any of these press outreaches you want to make sure that you include a link to your
website that contains a press kit that they can download.
So a press kit is basically putting together all of your founder headshots all of your logos your screenshots
if you're an app or a web site your home page or your product demos.
So pictures videos gifs all sorts of assets that are reformatted and resized to every single large medium
small.
And the reason for this is because a lot of tech journalists especially when they need to write articles
they need to output like one new article every hour.
They don't have the time for email ping pong where they email you back and forth for image acid's or
resizing.
So just provide a place where you've got all the possible images they could need in every single size
and that way they can just simply download and put it into their article with ease.
For you that means you'll maximize your chances of getting feature and getting press by making their
lives easier.
Now if you really can't get anybody to write about you then this is a really useful tool to sign up
to.
It's called Help a reporter out and you can find to help a reporter dot com.
So what they do is they send out e-mails three times a day containing journalist requests for sources
and they're categorized into various categories.
Health and Fitness or medical or business etc. and you can often see requests from large publications
or large blogs like Tech Crunch or Huffington Post who are looking for a source to comment on something
in particular.
And what you can do is you can actually create G-mail rules that filters all of these requests so that
you only have to see the ones that are relevant to you in your inbox and the rest of it can be deleted.
So in order to do this all you have to do is just go into your Gmail hit that little gear icon and go
into settings.
Once you're here you want to go into the filters and blocked addresses tab and you want to hit that
create a filter button.
And here you going to filter all the emails from Haro help a reporter dot com and your key word has
to go into the place where it says doesn't have.
Now this is really really important.
So the thing that you're going to put in doesn't have is what you want.
Sounds really counter-intuitive but bear with me.
So for example if you only want to see the requests that are coming through help a reporter or from
Tech Crunch Jonahs then you would put your key word as Tech Crunch or maybe you know if you are a Flowers
company you put flowers there.
Maybe if you're a soap company you put soap that you get my point right.
So then once you've done that you're going to you're going to click create a filter with this search
and that takes you to this page where you're going to say delete all the e-mails from Herro at help
report dot com that don't contain the word Tech Crunch.
So that means that all those e-mails skip your inbox and immediately go into the trash and you only
retain the ones that are relevant to you.
This way instead of having to slog through loads of e-mails three times a day you only get the ones
that are relevant to the subjects or the publications that you're interested in.
Now if you're interested in social media getting press and how this whole field has evolved and how
it works.
Have a read of this book.
It's called Trust me I'm lying by Ron Holliday and it is really really mind blowing.
And it changed a lot of my views on how press works.
And it's a really good book.
I highly recommend if you want to understand how this field works and how to better approach getting
press and getting attention in this current day and age.